---
layout: assignment
title: "Project 4: Your Own Project"
date: 2015-10-19
categories : [assignments, 2015]
dueDates: [2015-11-08,2015-12-4]
---

## Project Overview

This one's up to you. You can define your own project. It must:

- contain a significant amount of javascript (beyond libraries that you use. You can use whatever libraries you want, but you should at least do something interesting in Javascript yourself too.)
- use some external datasource that will be interacted with through AJAX
- have aesthetic (animation or something pretty), entertainment (game?), or practical value
- work. (no mockups. and no "oops, I guess there's a bug"; test it.)
- Ideally work with something we learned about in lecture:
    - Animations
    - Computer sensors / Unique Input Types
    - Accessiblity (page features some accessibility component)
    - Chrome application / extension
    - Server side component

This project can be a project for another class or for another thing you're working on. However, it must be done on your own.

This class focuses on UIs, so that's the most important part here. For example, if you're making a game, it's better to have a fluid, easy-to-play game with kind of dumb/simple mechanics than to have a complicated and ugly but fun game.

## Proposals
Due Nov. 6th at 11:59pm. Propose 1-3 topics, each with two paragraphs: a paragraph describing the end goal, and a paragraph describing how you plan to implement it. Send these in an email to me (nhahn@andrew.cmu.edu), with subject line starting with [SSUI p4]. I'll provide feedback as soon as possible (earlier if you send it to me earlier). At latest, you will hear back from my by Nov 8th. 

## Example ideas

- Take something you built from a previous project (i.e. a game for the drawing library or an interactive component from your state machines project) and build something really amazing from it.
- Build a game using cool animations. Incorporate external data or save some information about the players to a server. Or make it a collaborative game! (see [sharejs](https://github.com/share/ShareJS) for a cool operational transformation library that supports JSON objects). 
- Build a 3D model using WebGL (i.e. http://madebyevan.com/webgl-water/. Only attempt if you're good at graphics and have a lot of free time!)
- Build a useful application, like a photo gallery, a memo pad, ... which save data to a server.

If you have an idea, but it's not hard enough, you can make it run nicely on mobile (dealing well with different screen sizes and touch events), or make it a reusable library so other developers can drop it in and use it.

If you have an idea, but you're worried that it's too hard, try to build a realistic failure plan if you can't get it all to work. That is, if you want to do A+B+C+D, then make sure that A+B or A+B+C would each be a good (if less amazing) project.

## Presentations
Monday, Dec. 7th, 9am-10:30am and Wednesday Dec. 9th 9am-10:30am. We will be having the presentation joint with the mobile lab, so you will get to see some of their projects. 

If you can't come because of classes or other reasons, let me know by the end of Nov. 30th or you will lose some points. We'll have to set up another time to demo your project for me then.

4 minute presentation, 1 minute for questions. No slides necessary, just tell us what you built, show us what's cool about it, and talk about the most challenging part.

## Turning Your Program In and Demo

This project has the same procedure as Projects 0-3. Make sure to include all files that your project requires to run. As before, include a README.txt.
Also, be sure to cite every library you use, including libraries that you've built yourself previously (if applicable).

You'll also demo your code for me, so I can grade it. I'll try to be pickier than your classmates, test edge cases, etc. 
We'll have a sign up sheet for 15-minute time slots after the class demos.

## Grading

100 points:

- 60 points: Peer evaluation (based on class demos)
  - based on technical implementation and presentation, as follows:
  - Client-side technical difficulty and coolness: 20 pts
  - External datasource: 10pts
  - SSUI Lecture Material incorporation: 10pts
  - Presentation/polish: 20 pts
- 30 points: TA evaluation (based on TA demo)
  - Client-side technical difficulty and coolness: 15 pts
  - External datasource usage: 7 pts
    - I'll estimate how hard I think your project will be as part of the proposal feedback.
  - SSUI Lecture incorporation: 8pts
- 10 points: Participation in presentation and peer grading
