---
layout: assignment
title: "Project 0: A Few JavaScript Exercises"
date: 2015-08-31
categories : [assignments, 2015]
dueDate: 2015-09-16
---
## Goal
The goal of this project is to give you practice with JavaScript by completing a few small exercises. Additionally, we want to familiarize you with what "common" JS APIs look like verse other APIs (like Java). 

## Part I

In order to get an idea of how Funcions and APIs are written in Javascript, perform a comparison of the [HTML5 Audio API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/HTML/Using_HTML5_audio_and_video) and the [Android MediaPlayer API](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/media/mediaplayer.html).

**Example**: For each API, indicate how you would play the audio file hosted at `http://awesomemusic.com/sweet_track.mp3`?

##### HTML5:
```html
<audio src="http://awesomemusic.com/sweet_track.mp3" autoplay>
  Your browser does not support the <code>audio</code> element.
</audio>
```
*No Javascript required for this question*

##### Android:
```java
Uri myUri = "http://awesomemusic.com/sweet_track.mp3";
MediaPlayer mediaPlayer = new MediaPlayer();
mediaPlayer.setAudioStreamType(AudioManager.STREAM_MUSIC);
mediaPlayer.setDataSource(getApplicationContext(), myUri);
mediaPlayer.prepare();
mediaPlayer.start();
```
<br/>
Complete these tasks for the two APIs:

1. For each API, how would you pause, change the volume, and seek to a particular position in the audio file? 
2. For each API, how would you detect if there was an error loading the hosted file? 
3. For each API, how would you add an audio effect to the file being played (e.g Reverb or Compression)? You might have to take a closer look [here for HTML5](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Audio_API) and [here for Android](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/MediaPlayer.html).
4. Name one thing that would be harder to do in one of these APIs than the other and indicate why it would be harder. 

For each task, please provide a typed answer. 

### Turning It In
Provide your answer in either a PDF or Microsoft Word (.doc, .docx, or .rtf) file.  Files should be turned in using the BlackBoard site for the class, specifically using the turnin facility associated with P0 Part 1 found in the web lab assignments. 

## Part II 

### Overview
For this part, modify p0.js by adding the functions below. Each function should behave as specified. You should also add a test function called runTests() which tests the functions that you wrote. The functions you need to define are below. You can 'run' your javascript file using p0.html. See the very last few lines of p0.js to see how you can easily call runTests once the p0.html page has loaded. IMPORTANT: Make sure your function names are correct!

### Files Provided
The following files are available here. Right click and save-as to save them to your machine and start working:

- [p0.js]({{'/assets/assignments/p0.js' | prepend: site.baseurl}}): javascript file that you will need to edit.
- [p0.html]({{'/assets/assignments/p0.html' | prepend: site.baseurl}}): html file that loads the p0 javascript file for testing (it will look like a blank file. Right click and View Page Source to see the code there.)

### addHeader(content, level) (10 points)
#### Summary:
Adds a `<hN>` tag (where N is specified)  under the `<body>` tag of the html document (aka the "document body"). HINT: you should use `document.body.appendChild()`.

#### Example: 
If before your html file is:

```html
<html>
  …
  <body></body>
</html>
```

then `addHeader("foo", 4)` should add an h4 element with the text “foo”, and your html should now be:

```html
<html>
  …
  <body><h4>foo</h4></body>
</html>
```

#### Parameters:
- `content`: the text content of the header
- `level`: the level of the header (can be from 1 to 5). If the value is not a valid number or the passed in parameter is too high, defaults to h3.
- return: undefined (i.e. just type in 'return').

### fibonacci(n)  (10 points)
#### Summary:

Generates an array containing the first N numbers of the [Fibonacci Sequence](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibonacci_sequence). If the parameters passed are invalid (smaller than one or not a number), the function should return undefined.

#### Examples:

```javascript
fibonacci(0)-> undefined
fibonacci(1)->[0]
fibonacci(2)->[0,1]
fibonacci(7)->[0,1,1,2,3,5,8]
fibonacci(-1)-> undefined
fibonacci("invalid")-> undefined
```

#### Parameters: 
- `n`: the number of Fibonacci numbers to generate.
- return: An array of the first n Fibonacci numbers. If n is invalid, returns undefined.

### addUpNumbers(str)  (10 points)
#### Summary:
Takes in a string and returns the sum of every number in that string. Words, blank space, and things that do not start with a number are ignored. Returns 0 if there are no numbers in the string or if the argument is not a string.

#### Examples: 

```javascript
addUpNumbers("5 3 7") -> 15
addUpNumbers("5000 Forbes Ave, Pittsburgh PA 15213") -> 20213
addUpNumbers("Andre 3000, 311, and 10000 Maniacs") -> 13311
addUpNumbers("U2") -> 0
addUpNumbers("2 Fast 2 Furious") -> 4
addUpNumbers("Windows 3.1 and 95") -> 98.1
```

#### Parameters: 
- `str`: The string to parse which contains one or more numbers. 
- return: The sum of all the numbers in the string.

### map(array, functionToApply) (10 points)
#### Summary:
Applies a function to every element in an array and returns the resulting array. Make a new array, don't edit the existing one in place.
#### Example: 
```javascript
    var oneTo5 = [1,2,3,4,5];
    map(oneTo5, function (x) { return x * 2 }); -> [2,4,6,8,10]
```
#### Parameters: 
- `array`: the input array. 
- `functionToApply`: the function to apply. 
- return: The array that is a result of applying the function to every element in the input array. Returns undefined if parameters are invalid.

### runTests(10 points)
#### Summary:
This function should test each of the above functions. In other words, you should verify that the above functions behave as specified by using output statements. You should also check for edge cases. For each above function, write at least three tests per function. You can either output results to the chrome debugger using console.log(message), or output to the actual webpage (hint: you can use addHeader to output your results). This function should also output what the test is supposed to return, so you can tell at a glance whether your test passed or not.  One way you can do so is like so:

```javascript
    "fibonacci(5), should be [0,1,1,2,3], was: " + fibonacci(5)
```

### Grading
Your program will be run on my machine against test cases unknown to you. Each function will be worth 10 points - 7 for working correctly, and 3 for style and code quality. This will include factors such as modularity, comments, sensible method and variable names, and overall clarity. You may find these references useful: 
[Google style guide](http://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/javascriptguide.xml)
[Another blog post](http://particletree.com/features/successful-strategies-for-commenting-code)

#### Good example
```javascript
  /**
   * Doubles a number.
   * @param {number} num the number to be doubled.
   * @return {number} A number twice as big as num.
   */
  var double = function(num) {
      return num * 2;
  };
```

(this is a toy example; I won't ding you if you write a super-simple thing like
"double" without extensive JSDoc-type comments - it should be self-explanatory.
But this is a good way to be super explicit.)

#### Bad example
```javascript
  // does some stuff    
  var d = function(x) {
      return x * 2 // multiply by two
  }
```
(violates style guide for function naming, missing semicolons, redundant and
vague comments)

Developers argue about code readability for days. I'm not going to get into
long arguments about style; the point is, I should be able to read your code
and quickly know what's going on, even if your program were to grow a lot
bigger.

### Turning Your Program In
The program is due Thursday, September 12, 2013 at 10:30 am.

1. Get the following files together:
    1. p0.js
    2. p0.html
    3. README.txt, which mentions any online sources you used to help with the project, as well as any notes about your programs (i.e. if you couldn’t get a particular part of the project to work)
2. Zip them together into a file named `LASTNAME_FIRSTNAME_P#.zip`. For example, `tasse_dan_p0.zip`.
3. Hand them in on Blackboard.

You will lose 3 points if your submission is not in the correct format.

## Late Policy
Each 24 hrs late 10% will be deducted from your assignment grade. If the assignment is more than 10 days late, it will not be grades. 